June 14th, 2019
Belén Rubio Ballester
brubio@ibecbarcelona.eu

Synthetic, Perceptive, Emotive and Cognitive Systems (SPECS)
Institute for Bioengineering of Catalonia (IBEC)
http://www.ibecbarcelona.eu/specs


Instructions to run the main analysis with Excel
================================================

1. Open the file Computation_Stroke_CriticalPeriods_SPECS2019.xlsx. You can use this file to automatically compute the recovery rates for your dataset.


Instructions to run the full analysis with Matlab
=================================================

1. Execute the Matlab file main.m



Description of Contents
========================================

This folder contains all the resources for the analysis reported in the manuscript entitled:

"A critical time window for recovery extends beyond one-year post-stroke"


The structure contains the following folders and files: 

#### /aux-functions: folder containing Matlab functions implemented on purpose for this analysis and required by the main file main.m.
	
	# windowDiffTest.m Performs difference test over fixed intervals between-groups (ranksum). Change the corresponding line for other tests if necessary.
	# windowMean.m Performs difference test over fixed intervals but for the means and stds.
	# importAll.m Loads all the clinical data from 'Clinical_Scales_all.csv'
	# importDemog.m Loads all the demographics data from 'patients_Demographics_and_ClinicalScreening.xlsx'

#### /data: folder containing clinical data (i.e. recovery measures in clinical scales) and demographical data (e.g. patient's age, gender, chronicity, etc.).

#### /dependencies: generic toolboxes and functions required.

#### /figures: contains the EPS figures generated by the analysis and included in the manuscript.

#### /tables: contains the .MAT tables generated by the analysis and included in the manuscript.

#### impRateAnalysis: This Matlab function computes the normalized improvement rates and generates Figure 2.

#### main.m calculates the corrected p values and correction for the means. The bootstrapping N should be at least 10,000 for a short test, but at least 1,000,000 for the final analysis. The values are stored in statsCorrected.mat and pCorrelated.mat. The main script also runs the descriptive statistics and tests (signrank) for each of the conditions, and generates Tables and Figure 1, 3, S2, and S3.



